Now that we can estimate action
values using Monte Carlo,
the next step is to build
a generalized policy
iteration algorithm.
Let's see how we
can do that today.
By the end of this video,
you will understand how to use
Monte Carlo methods to
implement a GPI algorithm.
GPI includes a policy evaluation
and a policy improvement step.
GPI algorithms produce
sequences of policies
that are at least as good as
the policies before them.
For the policy improvement step,
we can make the policy
greedy with respect to
the agent's current
action value estimates.
For the policy evaluation step,
we will use a Monte Carlo method
to estimate the action values.
Remember that in
the GPI framework,
the value estimates need
only improve a little,
not all the way to
the correct action values.
All that is required for
convergence is that the
estimates continue to improve.
Monte Carlo control methods
combined policy improvement and
policy evaluation on
an episode-by-episode basis.
Now, let's put these two
together in one algorithm.
Let's start with
our Monte Carlo method
for learning action values.
You use exploring starts so that
each episode begins with
a randomly selected
state and action.
Then, the agent generates
an episode by
following his policy,
keeping track of the states,
actions, and rewards
along the way.
Once the episode is complete,
it computes each return
starting from the end
of the episode.
Then, it adds the return
to the appropriate list.
The list of returns are
then averaged to update
the action value estimates
for each state-action pair.
This completes the
policy evaluation step.
After policy evaluation, it's
time to do policy improvement.
We simply update
the policy to take
the greedy action with respect to
our updated action values.
We do this in every state
observed during the episode.
Isn't this so much
easier than the way we
did the step in
dynamic programming?
That's it. This is
the generalized policy
iteration algorithm,
Monte Carlo with
exploring starts.
In this video, we described how
to use Monte Carlo methods within
the GPI framework and discussed
an example GPI algorithm called
Monte Carlo with
exploring starts.